.\" $Id: allergy.1,v 1.32 2009-05-03 07:50:59 grahn Exp $
.\" $Name:  $
.\" 
.\"
.ss 12 0
.TH allergy 1 "MAR 2009" "Allergy" "User Manuals"
.SH "NAME"
allergy \- thumbnail and HTML picture gallery creator
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B allergy
.RB [ \-f \ file ]
\&...
.RB [ \-e ]
.RB [ \-k ]
.RB [ \-v | \-V ]
.I file
\&...
.br
.B "allergy --help"
.br
.B "allergy --version"
.
.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Allergy
takes one or more files (or else standard input),
concatenates them,
processes embedded gallery descriptions into HTML code
for displaying thumbnail images
(generating the thumbnails meanwhile)
and writes the result to standard output.
.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP \-f\ \fIfile
Use the text file
.I file
as a source of picture descriptions.
.IP \-e
Pull the date and time from the image's EXIF information,
and ignore the information contained in the
.B \-f
file.
.IP \-k
(keep) Never regenerate existing thumbnails, even if they are
older than the source image.
This is useful if you
.I know
you have the exact thumbnails you want, but something keeps messing up
the timestamps.
.IP \-v
List the image names, and whether they are being thumbnailed or not,
as they are processed.
.IP \-V
Print a dot as each image is being processed,
.BR cpio -style.
.
.SH "GENERAL INPUT SYNTAX"
Everything in the input outside the gallery descriptions
is output as-is. Presumably, it consists of HTML code.
.LP
Input may contain one or more gallery descriptions. These are
bracketed as follows:
.IP
.ft CW
.nf
\(rsbegin{gallery}
\&...
\(rsend{gallery}
.fi
.LP
The gallery description consists of optional definitions lines
which determine general characteristics of the gallery to be rendered,
followed by a list of file names and descriptions.
Empty lines and lines starting with a hash are treated as comments
and ignored.
.LP
Additionally, lines starting with whitespace are considered as
continuation lines, much like in Internet mail headers \(em
.BR allergy (1)
sees them as part of a logical line starting with the previous line
which starts with a non-whitespace character.
This is useful when you write long caption texts.
.
.SH "GALLERY DEFINITIONS"
The following definitions are recognized:
.IP
.ft CW
\(rsgrid{\fIcols\fP, n}
.LP
Layout of the gallery \(em generates a HTML
.B <table>
with
.I cols
columns (default: four) and enough rows to fit all images.
Caption text, if any, will appear as the
.B title
attribute of the thumbnail image.
This is the default gallery layout.
.IP
.ft CW
\(rslist{}
.LP
Alternate layout strategy \(em generates a
.B <div>
containing a series of paragraphs,
each containing the thumbnail and the caption text.
.I list
is more useful than
.I grid
when you have a lot to say about each picture.
.IP
.ft CW
\(rsclass{\fIname\fP}
.LP
Sets the
.B class
attribute on the HTML construct (i.e. the
.B <table>
or the
.BR <div> )
making up the gallery.
This is useful for controlling rendering of the page using CSS.
Default: not set.
.IP 
.ft CW
\(rsbounded{\fIwidth\fP, \fIheight\fP}
.LP
Specifies the dimensions of the thumbnail image. Images will be scaled
so that they fit in a rectangle of the given size,
while preserving the aspect ratio.
Default: (140,100).
.IP
.ft CW
\(rsquality{\fIn\fP}
.LP
Quality of the generated JPEG thumbnails, from 0 (worst) to 100 (best).
Default: 30.
.
.SH "IMAGE DEFINITIONS"
Images to be included in the gallery are defined by lines on the forms
.IP 
.ft CW
.nf
filename-or-pattern : caption-text
filename-or-pattern : caption-text
  more caption-text
  ...
filename-or-pattern
.fi
.LP
The images can be specified one at a time, using filename expansion, or
using a combination of the two.
The filename expansion is implemented by
\(lqglobbing\(rq, which expands patterns in the manner of
.BR sh (1)
\(em things like
.BR * ,
.BR ? ,
and
.B []
are supported.
.LP
The patterns never match a file name starting with an underscore \(em
those are reserved for thumbnail file names.
.LP
Images are laid out in the order of appearance in the input file.
Patterns expand to a sorted list of all matching file names.
For each gallery definition, duplicate image definitions are removed
by removing all but the first one in the list. This makes it possible
to move important images to near the top and let the others appear in
order below. For example:
.IP 
.ft CW
.nf
foo.png
bar.png
*.png
.fi
.LP
Files that cannot be thumbnailed will appear as plain links in the
output. Files that
.I can
be inlined are image files recognized by
whatever version of the \fIPython Imaging Library\fP
you have installed.
.LP
The caption text may be any piece of valid HTML if you intend to
format the gallery as a list.
If you use the grid layout, it must be plain text in your source
character set, since it ends up as a
.B title
attribute, not normal HTML text.
.LP
If you provide no caption text but have a file describing the photos
(see the
.B \-f
command-line option)
the date, time and description from that file is used instead,
if available.
This only works for
.BR title ,
i.e. in the grid layout.
.LP
Additionally, if you provide the
.B \-e
command-line option and no caption text,
images containing a EXIF date
will be annotated with that date.
(For this to work, you need the
.I EXIF
python module.)
.
.SH "PICTURE INFORMATION FILE FORMAT"
If you provide a file with additional information about the pictures
using the
.B \-f
option, it has to be on the following format:
.IP \(bu 2m
A series of image entries, separated by blank lines.
.IP \(bu
Comment lines start with a
.BR # .
.IP \(bu
First line in an entry is the file name, without path.
.IP \(bu
Second line may be the creation time, on the format
.IR yyyy-mm-dd\ hh:mm ,
and in local time.
Unless the
.B \-e
command-line option was given,
this may be used in image titles.
.IP
If this second line exists but does not match the timestamp format above,
it is assumed to be one of the ...
.IP \(bu
following lines which, if present, describe the image.
Line breaks and spacing is irrelevant.
.IP \(bu
Straight [brackets] mark keywords or key phrases in the description.
These nest, so the phrase
.B "foo [bar [baz]]"
contains two key phrases,
.B "bar"
and
.BR "bar baz" .
.IP \(bu
Curly {brackets} also mark keywords, but are not shown as part of the description.
.LP
An entry could look like this:
.IP 
.ft CW
.nf
030701_24.jpg
2003-07-01 08:56
mountains covered in snow,
on the border towards [Norway], from [R\(:odfj\(:allet]
{landscape}
.fi
.
.SH "GENERATED HTML CODE"
The general idea is to generate strictly conforming code, and let
the user take care of specific rendering details using style sheets,
supported by the \fIclass\fP definition described above.
.LP
Inline images (i.e. the thumbnails) are given an
.B alt
text, which simply is the filename, bracketed.
They may also be given, as described above, a
.B title
containing the caption text.
.LP
Thumbnail pictures are named as the originals, but with an underscore
character as prefix.
.LP
When the list layout strategy is used rather than the table layout,
each entry is a paragraph, ending with a \fI<br>\fP.
.
.SH "BUGS"
.IP \(bu 2m
All names of thumbnail images are expected to begin
with an underscore ('_'). Thumbnails are never generated
for these files, even if the input explicitly requests it.
.IP \(bu
When using generated tables, are they browser-friendly,
or do they delay rendering
unnecessarily over slow connections?
.IP \(bu
The input syntax is messy, brittle and restrictive.
.IP \(bu
The picture description file format might not suit everybody.
The truth is that I just needed this feature for myself,
and the system I use for keeping track of photos looks like this ...
.IP \(bu
Error handling and error reporting is probably unsatisfactory.
.
.SH "DEPENDENCIES"
.BR allergy (1)
depends on the \fIPython Imaging Library\fP (also known as \fIPIL\fP)
for scaling down images in various formats and for finding image
dimensions.
.LP
Gene Cash's
.I EXIF
Python module is needed for the
.B \-e
option; finding the creation date
of digital camera photos. I don't use it myself.
.
.SH "AUTHOR"
J\(:orgen Grahn \[fo]grahn+src@snipabacken.se\[fc]
.
.SH "LICENSE"
The Modified BSD license.
